README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# pylintqmd

![Code licence](https://img.shields.io/badge/🛡️_Code_licence-MIT-8a00c2?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=gray)
[![ORCID](https://img.shields.io/badge/ORCID_Amy_Heather-0000--0002--6596--3479-A6CE39?style=for-the-badge&logo=orcid&logoColor=white)](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6596-3479)

</div>

<br>

Package for running pylint on .qmd files.

<br>

## Installation

You can install `pylintqmd` from PyPI:

```
pip install pylintqmd
```

Or, for local development:

```
pip install -e .
```

<br>

## Usage

To lint current directory and sub-directories:

```
pylintqmd .
```

To lint file:

```
pylintqmd file.qmd
```

To lint all .qmd files in directory

```
pylintqmd folder
```

To keep temporary .py files for debugging when lint:
```
pylintqmd . -k
```

<br>

## Dependencies

This package uses Flit for packaging and pytest for testing.

A `requirements.txt` file in this repository is provided for development purposes and contains:

```
flit
pylint
pytest
twine
-e .
```

To install development dependencies, run:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

<br>

## Updating the package

Make sure to **update the version** number.

To upload to **PyPI**:

```
flit publish
```

To upload to **test PyPI**, remove any existing builds, then build the package locally and push with twine, entering the API token when prompted:

```
rm -rf dist/
flit build
twine upload --repository testpypi dist/*
```

<br>

## Acknowledgements

Parts of this package were generated or adapted from code provided by [Perplexity](https://www.perplexity.ai/).

Commit message:

docs(readme): add pypi badge, updated package publication instructions, and citation instructions

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# pylintqmd

![Code licence](https://img.shields.io/badge/🛡️_Code_licence-MIT-8a00c2?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=gray)
[![ORCID](https://img.shields.io/badge/ORCID_Amy_Heather-0000--0002--6596--3479-A6CE39?style=for-the-badge&logo=orcid&logoColor=white)](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6596-3479)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pylintqmd?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=gray)](https://pypi.org/project/pylintqmd/)

</div>

<br>

Package for running pylint on .qmd files.

<br>

## Installation

You can install `pylintqmd` from PyPI:

```
pip install pylintqmd
```

Or, for local development:

```
pip install -e .
```

<br>

## Usage

To lint current directory and sub-directories:

```
pylintqmd .
```

To lint file:

```
pylintqmd file.qmd
```

To lint all .qmd files in directory

```
pylintqmd folder
```

To keep temporary .py files for debugging when lint:
```
pylintqmd . -k
```

<br>

## Dependencies

This package uses Flit for packaging and pytest for testing.

A `requirements.txt` file in this repository is provided for development purposes and contains:

```
flit
pylint
pytest
twine
-e .
```

To install development dependencies, run:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

<br>

## Updating the package

Make sure to **update the version** number.

To upload to **PyPI** using `flit`:

```
flit publish
```

To upload to **PyPI** or **test PyPI** using `twine`: remove any existing builds, then build the package locally and push with twine, entering the API token when prompted:

```
rm -rf dist/
flit build
twine upload --repository pypi dist/*
```

```
rm -rf dist/
flit build
twine upload --repository testpypi dist/*
```

<br>

## Citation

Please refer to `CITATION.cff`.

<br>

## Acknowledgements

Parts of this package were generated or adapted from code provided by [Perplexity](https://www.perplexity.ai/).
